## Defining your problem (deadline: Tuesday)

You'll spend the first couple of days building a problem definition. An
important part of this is understanding the limitations and possibilities of
the platform that you will be building your software on.

The result of this phase is a *proposal document* that thorougly describes the
folowing aspects of your application:

- what features will be exposed to the end user, what problem will be solved
  for the user

- a preliminary sketch of what the application will look like

- what data sets and data sources will you need, how you will get the data into
  the right form for your app

- what separate parts of the application can be defined (decomposing the
  problem) and how these should work together

- how the platform will facilitate creating your application, and what external
  components (APIs) you need to make certain features possible

- potential problems that may arise during development and what possibilities
  you have to overcome these

- a short review of similar applications or visualisations in terms of features and possibly technical aspects

The proposal document should be well-written and clearly formatted. Do not
forget to include a title, your name, and a paragraph summary of the
application goals at the top.

Although we call the document a proposal, you are expected to refine and
discuss the contents with fellow students and the teaching crew *before*
handing it in.

## Setting up your development environment (deadline: Tuesday)

While working on your problem definition, you can start creating your
development environment. From the pre-proposal, you should know what platform
you will be using and how to test the software during development and
thereafter.

If you have not done so already, you should setup *git* to share your code with
the teaching staff on a daily basis.

Make sure you have a basic project on GitHub containing all boilerplate code
that is generated by the framework that you are using. Also make sure that you
can easily test your application so you will not be slowed down during
development.

### Submitting

You will need to submit your boilerplate code by *push*ing it to GitHub. Then
go to the GitHub website and put your proposal document on the project Wiki.

## Framing your problem in terms of the framework (deadline: Friday)

Based on your proposal, you can now start studying your problem in a more
technical fashion. During this phase of defining your application, the teaching
staff and your fellow students can spot if there are fundamental
problems that need to be solved, or if there technical limitations that will
prevent you from finishing the application.

Use the decomposition you made earlier to map parts of the solution on the
framework(s) that you are using. Think about and fully express how the user
interface will be handled, where the data is coming from, and how the various
parts will work together to form a complete application. It is expected that
you separate the user interface from the data provider whenever possible.

Some parts that you may describe here:

- a list of classes and public methods (and their return types and/or
  arguments) that you’ve decided to implement

- advanced sketches of UIs that clearly explain which features are connected to
  which underlying classes

- a list of APIs and frameworks that you will be using to provide functionality
  in your app

- a list of data sources, and database tables and fields (and their types) that
  you’ve decided to implement

If your application has multiple independent programs working together (e.g. to
clean your dataset) you need to provide a high-level overview of these
components and then provide a lowel-level overview of the inner workings of
each component.

## Creating a prototype of your application (deadline: Friday)

While further specifying the technical details of your application, you will
create a prototype of your applications's user interface. It can be changed in
the following weeks, but it should provide a good starting point for further
development. By creating a prototype this early, you can focus on more
fundamental problems in later weeks.

### Submitting

You will need to submit your prototype code by *push*ing it to GitHub. Your design document should be an evolution of the proposal in the project Wiki. (GitHub wikis track changes, so we can always look at older versions if needed.)
